Hello everyone in this lesson we will begin building our Contact Us page first.
We will learn how to embed an interactive Google map onto our page and we will also learn how to add
a contact form to the page so visitors can fill out a few fields their name their e-mail address and
the message they want to send us.
So that way they can send us an email without knowing our email address.
Without further ado let's jump into the action and try to add a Google map to our page.
All right.
So here's the homepage of my web site and if I use the navigation menu to go to our Contact Us page
we see that at the moment it only has one sentence of filler or placeholder content.
So let's make our first goal to remove this placeholder text and instead add an interactive Google map.
So that way visitors of our Web site can see where our hypothetical business is located and they will
be only one click away from getting Google map directions from their location to our businesses location.
OK.
So if I want to edit this Contact Us page.
The first step is to just look up in the top black add minbar and we can use this edit page to link
from the screen let's begin editing this content.
So I will delete this and instead say our main corporate office is located in downtown New York City
and then maybe right below that sentence we will include an interactive Google map here.
Now if we want a Google map our next step is to open a new tab in our web browser or a new window in
our web browser.
So in this new window perform a Google search for Google Maps we are looking for maps dot Google dot
com.
So when you find that go ahead and click on it and from this screen we can use the top left search field
to search for any address we can think of.
So if you have a business office go ahead and type in the address for that office here.
In my case just as an example I will type in Times Square New York City.
All right.
And now if your business already shows up as one of these circle locations you can just click on it
or you can literally just click anywhere on the map.
So for example if I click right here it created this little marker and now down here towards the bottom
center of the screen if I click on this location
that updates this left hand panel of the screen.
And now what we're looking for is this button right here that reads share.
So go ahead and click on the share icon and then within this pop up content click on embed map
perfect.
This is what we are looking for.
So you'll notice that in this field Google is giving us a bit of code.
Now with this code highlighted just go ahead and copy it to your clipboard.
And now jump back to the browser tab or browser window where you have WordPress open.
So here I am back in my wordpress admin area and I'm editing the Contact Us page and now it's just as
simple as pasting in that code.
So remember we wanted to add the Google map right about here.
So with my cursor there that looks good but let's be sure to switch from visual mode into text mode
because we want to paste in code.
So click on text here and now we can get rid of this non-breaking space character and now simply just
paste in your clipboard.
It's not necessary but just to stay organized.
Why don't we add a space or a new line in between our sentence and the Google Code.
OK and now we can go ahead and switch back to the visual mode instead of the text mode.
And there see our interactive Google map.
So let's go ahead and click this blue update button in the right hand side bar OK and we see this message
page was successfully updated and we can use this view page link to check out the front end of our Web
site.
And there it is perfect.
So now visitors of our website can click and drag or zoom in and out.
On this map and they can also click the directions button here and there just one click away from getting
step by step google directions to our office.
All right.
So we successfully added a Google map to our page.
Let's change gears now and our next goal for our Contact Us page is to add a form down here that visitors
can fill out to send us a message.
So there will be fields for them to enter their name their email address and then a message that they
want to send us and then they can click a submit button and wordpress will automatically take their
message and send it to us via e-mail.
So that way our e-mail address stays relatively private and it's not just up on the web for all spam
robots to gather.
Now out of the box by default WordPress does not have the ability to create a contact form.
However we know that we can leverage the power of plugins.
So let's jump back to our WordPress admin dashboard area and in the left hand menu click on plug ins
we are going to search for and install a new plug in that will allow us to create a contact form.
So we're going to need to use the Add New plug in.
Link.
So click on Add new and from this screen.
Let's use this top right search field and search for contact form 7 OK.
And the first result is indeed contact form 7.
This is a great plug in and you can see that I'm not alone in thinking that it has over a million active
installs and an average rating of four and a half stars.
This plug in has been around for years.
It's an awesome solution.
So let's go ahead and click the install now button.
Once that's complete we can then click activate and now with that plugin activated if we look in our
left hand sidebar we will see a new option named contact.
Let's go ahead and click on contact and from the screen I want to draw your attention to this area.
This screen will show us all of the different contact forms we have.
Currently we just have the one form that the plug in creates for us automatically by default.
And for our website and our purposes I think this is the only form that we will need.
Now in a few minutes we will indeed learn how to customize and edit the form.
But for now to get started let's just learn how to add the form to our Contact Us page.
So right here we will see something called a short code a short code is a piece of code that you can
copy and paste into the main content area of field for a page or a post.
So check this out.
Let's go ahead and select and copy this short code right here.
So select it and then click copy and with that in my clipboard Now let's jump over to my contact page.
So in the left hand side bar let's click on pages we want to work on the Contact Us page.
So let's click that OK and remember we want to add the contact form right below this Google map.
So I would just click right about here to place my cursor after the map and then push enter or drop
down to a new line.
And now let's just paste in our clipboard and there's that short code.
Now this might just look like code to you and I put WordPress will interpret this and know what to do
with it.
So check this out.
If we go ahead and click the blue update button in the right hand corner and we see page successfully
updated.
And if we use this link to preview the front end of our website below the Google map is indeed a contact
form and now visitors of our Web site can simply fill out these fields.
So for your name they might say Jondo for their email address they might say Jondo at John Doe dot gov
for the subject line they might say hello.
I'd like to work with you.
And then they just enter a brief message.
Hello.
Can I hire you.
Aurum some Hello world.
And finally they click the send button and then Word Press.
Behind the scenes will take this information that they entered and send it to us.
The owner of the Web site in an e-mail so I clicked the send button and now we see Thank you for your
message.
It has been sent and you'll have to take my word for it.
But my smartphone just didn't because I received an email with the data that we just filled out.
OK so we successfully added a contact form to the Contact Us page.
Now before we bring this lesson to a close.
Let's learn how to customize or edit this form.
So for example instead of just these fields imagine we want to add a new field and imagine its name
or label reads.
What are you interested in.
And then instead of a text field that the user can type in.
Imagine it's a dropdown menu and they can choose between photography advertising or graphic design.
Ok so let's go and set that up and add that new field right now.
So let's jump back to our admin dashboard and in the sidebar let's click on the contact item again.
At this moment we only have the one form.
So let's go ahead and click on it to edit it.
All right.
And this is a brand new screen that we have never seen before.
So let's take a moment to analyze what we were looking at.
So up here we see the short code that we already copied and pasted to add the form to our page and then
moving down here is the area where we can actually customize and edit the form.
So this code that we see here is our current form.
I know code can be scary and intimidating but let's just go over this line by line because I don't think
it's as scary as you think it is.
So within this first chunk of code you can ignore the words label and really all we see is text that
says your name and the field is required so users have to fill this out.
They can't leave a blank and then we see another bit of code here.
So the word text here tells Wordpress and the web browser to create a text input field where users can
type and then your name is the name of that field.
Let's look at the next chunk of code.
So here we see your e-mail and it's required.
And then the word email right here is telling the plug in and WordPress and the web browser that the
user must enter a valid email address in this field and then your e-mail is the name of that field.
OK and then obviously that same pattern is also applied for the subject field.
And the your message field so hopefully you can agree with me that this code is not rocket science.
But let's get back to the task at hand.
So remember we want to create a brand new field titled What are you interested in.
And the field will be a drop down menu where visitors have to choose between advertising photography
or graphic design.
Ok so if we want to add that new field.
The first step is to place our cursor so click right where we want to add it.
So let's say that I want to add it right after this subject field.
And right before your message field.
So I will just click here to place my cursor right there.
And now I can click any one of these buttons to insert a certain type of field so I can click dropdown
menu and from this pop up screen we're interested in this options field so you can see that it reads
one option per line.
So we want them to be able to choose between photography advertising or graphic design.
But you get the idea you just type out the available options that you want your visitors to be able
to choose from one per line and that's it.
So with those in place now we can click this blue insert tag button down here and the plug in just added
this new line of code for us.
Now with this new line of code in place.
Why don't we click the save button in the top right corner and see what our updated contact form looks
like on the front end of our Web site.
So let me jump to the contact us page and if I scroll down a bit here we see that dropdown menu and
if I click on it I can choose between the three options.
Now I do notice a problem though this field doesn't have a label.
Remember we wanted it to read.
What are you interested in.
So let's add that label right now.
Let's jump back into our admin dashboard.
And now our goal is to add label text for this new field that we created.
We are going to need to write a little tiny bit of code but I don't think it's going to be scary.
So check this out right above this new line that we created.
Let's add a new line.
So place your cursor at the beginning of this line and then push enter.
Create a new line and then just jump up to that new line and enter the less than symbol and then type
label and then type the greater than symbol.
And now we can type whatever we want our label to be.
So in our case let's make it read what are you interested in.
OK and we have one last step.
Now right below this new field line.
So drop down to a new line.
Now I want you to close out the label tag.
So type in the less than symbol and then type a forward slash.
All right.
And then type label and then type a greater than symbol and that's it.
Congratulations you just wrote a bit of HTL mail code.
Now from this point let's go ahead and save the page again.
So towards the right hand corner click save.
And now if I jump back to my front facing Web site on the Contact page and refresh and scroll down a
bit here's our field.
And now we see what are you interested in.
So now visitors will understand what we are asking them to fill out.
OK.
So we successfully added a field to the front end of this form that visitors fill out.
But we do have one final step if we want to actually see their answer in the email that gets sent to
us.
So check this out.
If we jump back to our admin dashboard.
All right.
And from this edit contact form screen we've previously been working in this area and up here we can
see a few taps to choose from.
So we've been working within the form screen but now we need to click on the mail screen to go ahead
and click mail right here.
This screen will let us customize all of the details about the e-mail that get sent to us as the owner
of the Web site so you can change the To field the from field.
The subject line you get the idea.
In this case what I want to customise is the actual message or the body of the e-mail.
So if I scroll down a bit here we can see message body.
And this is the actual meat and potatoes this is the body of the email that will be sent to us.
Now if you think back to a few moments ago when we were working with the code these bits of code here
will probably seem familiar.
Remember that field where the user types in their name.
Well whatever the user types in is stored in a variable named Jordache name.
And the same thing with their email it's stored in a variable Jordache e-mail.
So we will receive an e-mail that says from Colon.
And then the person's name subject colon and then whatever the user typed in is their subject.
So back to the task at hand.
We want to make sure that this e-mail that gets sent to us includes the field where we ask the user
what they are interested in.
So here's what I'm going to do.
Let's create a new line right about here and say I'm interested in.
And then I need to type out the variable name for that new field that we created.
Now I don't expect you to have superhuman memory so to find out the name of that field.
Let's just scroll up and currently we are in the mail tab but let's jump back to the form tab.
And here's that dropdown field that we created Currently it looks like as a name or variable name of
menue dash 4 6 6.
Now the contact plug in and wordpress automatically generated that name for us.
And it indeed seems like a name that a robot came up with.
It's not a very human friendly name.
So we are free to change that right now if we want to.
So let's delete that menu dash for 6:06 and instead let's type in interested dash in.
Now I just made that up.
I invented this name.
You could type out any name that you want here.
Just make sure that you don't have spaces in your name.
Use dashes instead of spaces.
And now if we jump back to the mail tab.
So click on mail right here.
If I scroll down a bit back in this message body field remember we added interested in Colon and now
we just type out the variable name of that field.
So let's begin with a pair of brackets square brackets for not sure how to get these characters.
I'll tell you right now.
So on your keyboard directly to the right of the key that's the open square bracket and then to the
right of that key is the closing square bracket.
Now in between those brackets let's just type the variable name.
Now you might have named it something different but in my case remember I named that field interested
dash in.
All right.
So this code looks good to me.
Now let's scroll down to the very bottom of this page and click on Save.
And now let's jump back over to the front end of our website and refresh on the Contact Us page.
And if I scroll down.
Let me fill out this form and then I will show you the email in my inbox to prove that everything's
working as we had hoped for.
All right let's go ahead and click send.
Thank you for your message.
It was sent.
And just to prove that things are working as we had hoped for here is that generated e-mail from my
inbox.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson we will learn how to make
a few improvements to the contact form.
It should be a lot of fun by the end of that lesson we will have a premium 100 percent bulletproof contact
form.
Let's keep rolling.
And I will see you in the next lesson.